# address-resolution-protocol
The above program helps implement Address Resolution Protocol, and Reverse Address Protocol using a python code.

ARP stands for Address Resolution Protocol. The Address Resolution Protocol is a communication protocol used for discovering the link layer address such as the MAC address associated with a given internet layer access, typically an IPv4 address. It is defined by the Internet Engineering Task Force(IETF) under Request for comments (RFC)-826. It is a request-response type protocol whose messages are encapsulated by a link layer protocol. It is typically placed in the link layer of the Internet protocol stack. 

Most of the computer programs use a logical address(IP address) to send/receive messages, however the actual communication takes place from the link layer(layer-2 in the ISO-OSI protocol stack). Typically, the destination MAC address is not known, thus communication cannot be established between devices. Thus, ARP can be used to translate IP addresses to the physical addresses. The job of the ARP is to translate 32-bit addresses to 48-bit addresses and vice versa. IP addresses are 32-bits long, but MAC addresses are 48-bit long, thus the ARP is used to translate between the both of the above addresses. The MAC address exists on the layer-2 (link layer) of the ISO-OSI reference model, whereas the IP address exists on the layer-3(network layer) of the ISO-OSI reference model. 

When a new computer joins a LAN network, it is assigned a unique IP address for identification and communication. When an incoming packet destined for a host machine on a particular gateway, the gateway asks the ARP program to find a MAC address that matches the corresponding IP address. A table called the ARP cache maintains each IP address and its corresponding IP address. All systems operating in an IPv4 ethernet network keep an ARP cache. Every time a host requests a MAC address in order to send a packet to another host in the LAN, it checks its ARP cache to see if the IP to MAC address translation already exists. If it does, then a new ARP request is unnecessary. If the translation does not already exist, then the request for network addresses is sent and ARP is performed. ARP broadcasts a request packet to all the machines on the LAN and asks if any of the machines know they are using that particular IP address. When a machine recognizes the IP address as its own, it sends a reply so ARP can update the cache for future reference and proceed with the communication. Host machines that don't know their own IP address can use the Reverse ARP protocol for discovery.

This technique is only used in IPv4, since this has been replaced by neighbour discovery(ND), which operates in the link layer(Layer-2) of the ISO-OSI model stack, and uses Internet Control Message Protocol(ICMP) version-6 to discover the neighbouring nodes.

Implementation:
The implementation of the ARP program is done by means of the ping command on the ubuntu command line, along with the inbuilt ARP table construct which helps in storing the IP addresses of the recently stored devices. Using this procedure, each time an IP address is pinged, it is resolved to its corresponding physical address, and this translation is stored in the ARP table. To do so, all devices on the network were pinged(in the constructor init function), and the translation to the physical address was then stored in the ARP table. The next step involves the implementation of reverse ARP, which uses the translations between the IP addresses and the MAC addresses which are already present in the ARP table. 


